# Customer_Digital_Locker_System
Digilocker is a facility available to Indian citizens to enable them to store their documents digitally.No more carrying your documents, marker sheets, index cards, etc. in a briefcase or portfolio, and no need for 24/7 security monitoring in case of loss or theft.If you want to use these documents anywhere in the country, just click on Digital Locker. If Person wishes to create his own digital locker, Aadhar No. along with a mobile phone number.Associated with his/her her Aadhar #
.The facility is a step envisioned by the Government of India. Eliminate the use of physical documents and go paperless.Save time and money by working with documents electronically with the help of Digilocker has three main components:
• Creating Digital Infrastructure
• Digital Delivery of Services
• Digital Literacy
Digital lockers are also believed to have the advantage of saving a lot of time and money for both service providers and service users ().Because these documents are available anytime, anywhere. It can also be shared through the online system.Carrying around physical copies of documents quickly becomes a redundant concept.By linking each member to her AADHAAR number (a unique number given to all her cardholders), Digital Locker reduces the risk of losing important her documents.It also minimizes the possibility of document forgery and enables secure access to government-issued documents.Digital Locker provides services to all major sectors such as education, healthcare,railways and other ministries.It attempts to merge various existing systems and programs.These existing plans of action will be reconstructed and reconstructed.The scope of the project is wide and the chances of success are high. provided that the government and others associated with the project are able to overcome the obstacles associated with this program.
CONCLUSION :-
A large number of physical documents can represent a huge administrative burden. The DigiLocker system is intended to help ease the workload of both the Ministry and citizens.Additionally, the digital system will help alleviate the credibility issues facing the Indian government.The problem of providing multiple copies of one job is solved with this innovative step. Electronic lockers are designed to store income certificates, birth certificates, education certificates, and more. This
may be made readily available to agencies requested to apply. You can also share documents with registered institutions or departments via email.Access to government-issued documents via this portal and mobile applications is unrestricted. 
For example, if a driver's license is applied to, the local tourism office can issue document and upload it to his dedicated repository. The documents will be sent to the Aadhar card number of her resident affected. In this case, the RTO is called an "Exhibitor" . Another great advantage of this system is that you can sign your document and get exclusive 10MB of personal storage space which can be increased to 1GB as needed. Your data becomes part of your personal account, so privacy is guaranteed.Additionally, if you do not have a unique identification number, you can download the e-Aadhar from the DigiLocker Portal. A stakeholder in a digital system is a resident, issuer, and anyone with access to her account, including her requestor. However, the government will soon become the issuer or requesting entity of her board.
